## [home](scrolls/home)

Hi, Masa and LeoDavid!

I'm so glad you all met and talked and that we can work together!  I want to put together a coherent proposal which exists in my head but we need to get it into proposal format.  A lot of this is inspired by re-reading "As We May Think" which I highly recommend .

web link to the document:https://web.mit.edu/STS.035/www/PDFs/think.pdf
wikipedia page about the paper:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/As_We_May_Think
It is an essay from Vannevar Bush from 1945 envisioning modern information technology but with a different implementation than we ended up with, based on microfilm.  What I want to build is a version of the "memex" as he called the device, made where the read/write is done with an electrochemical probe using 2 DVD drives, an Arduino, and a bunch of stuff we can buy from Adafruit and other online vendors, and the substrate we write on is aluminum salvaged from beverage cans.  This system can be run from the servers we are building by putting Ubuntu on old mac/pc laptops that are no longer usable(I just tested this with a mac, it works great).  I want to invent a system of repeatably flattening little disks or squares of aluminum cut/punched from beverage cans, then polished on some kind of polisher to get it really smooth, then cleaned, and then maybe grow some controlled oxide with a steam bath.  

One DVD drive sits facing up, with a dish on it with fluid in it and some kind of mechanism to hold the aluminum wafer(which is maybe 1 inch on a side) down. That DVD drive has the stepper motor controlled as with my other trash robots, using the Arduino's 5v supply for power and the stepper controller from Pololu robotics.  A second DVD drive is face down directly above the first, also with a stepper controller over the worm gear stage which  moves it in what I'll call the "X" direction, perpendicular to the direction of the first, face up, DVD drive.  This also has 2 of the fine motion coils connected to the Arduino using a dual H Bridge from Adafruit, which I've tested, which can move the little lens with very fine(i'm hoping on the order of microns) motion in the X and Z directions both.  Then a magnetic mount is epoxied onto the lens on the top unit, for electrode probes which we can swap out, trying many electrode materials and shapes, and a fine wire(maybe like 36 AWG copper magnet wire) goes from that to a digital output of the Arduino.  

The system thus allows one to move a probe in X, Y, Z in a fluid over a polished aluminum wafer with a grown aluminum oxide layer on it.  We will have a manual controller to move this around by hand by pushing buttons, again just copied from the existing trash robot setup.  This has 6 buttons for the 6 directions, and a "start" and "stop" button.  That's where the magic of Geometron comes in. Start runs our geometric program which is how we write and also how we raster the system in read mode to get information back out.  And we want some kind of optics with something like a little picam and some mirrors/lenses and bright white LED so that the user can see what the probe sees.

The aluminum wafer is connected by the mechanism that holds it in place to an analog input on the Arduino which also has a capacitor to ground. This allows us to build a relaxation oscillator where the digital output is driving the analog input through an RC circuit, the cap is charged when the digital goes from 0V to 5V, then discharged when it goes back to 0.  But we have thresholds in the code, Vmax and Vmin which set how fast that goes(these are set in code manually, with feedback, or with two set potentiometers on separate analog inputs of the Arduino).  This means that what is seen at the analog input pin of the Arduino is a curved sawtooth wave where the frequency is set by the capacitor to ground and the resistance of the fluid/oxide/film system with whatever film we grow on the surface.  So that analog signal can get played out on an audio connector to an amplifier/speaker, making a somewhat offensive screeching sound which has a ton of information about the physics of the system. If you do this on a system with complex nonlinear dynamics, those all appear in that AC signal, and can be fed into a computer and analyzed, as a fast and crude IV curve tracer, I think much like what you guys do on the STM(but obviously a lot easier with  mA and kOhms instead of GOhms!). 

 This is a platform we can use to do a million things!!  I've experimented with this system for the last few years, and you can just mess around with random biological slime to see dynamics like negative differential resistance, so you can definitely build interesting circuits that can be used for getting gain/switching behavior.  And of course the native aluminum oxide can be altered with the electrode, building spots where we etch through the barrier to make contacts, use it as a tunnel junction, dope it to do stuff(magnetic tunnel junctions??!!), or beef it up to be a more insulating substrate.  We can grow organic biofilms on the surface and work with those with our probe both mechanically and electrically.  we can spin on different films to the wafers and poke them mechanically or use some electrical process to write.  And in all cases we are just choosing height, speed, pattern, electrical properties for the write, and running Geometron glyphs to control the motion to make whatever we want, then on the read mode rastering and taking the electrical signal out to be analyzed by a computer or analog circuits.   

This platform does a bunch of things at the same time.  It can be built using found materials and things that anyone can buy online, in any public library(since they usually have an existing budget for STEM education stuff like this) for very little money.  It uses trash both to build the mechanical system and I think most importantly as the actual physical substrate.  So one fork here is that this can be really-really-free media, where we build a read/write system as Bush envisions above for text documents, images, music, and use that to build free media for mass market applications.  But the other fork, which I want to put into a proposal is as a generalized fabrication platform for a wide range of devices, which are all also made from trash.  The little dish with the fluid in it can also have a fluid input/output so that we can change what that fluid is during various phases of fabrication with some very simple little pumps and bottles of various fluids.  I think this can be a circuit fabrication platform!  It won't "compete" with silicon of course in speed or minimum feature size or integration, but the fact that it can be made from trash I think opens up interesting avenues of research, where we could try to build up something at the level of complexity of say a stepper motor controller, and have a goal be to replace the off the shelf motor controllers with ones we can grow from trash and organic materials in the fluids.  I envision that this will potentially always be wet technology, where even after a circuit is fabricated and used in some device that there's a wet paper towel on it all the time, and the exact chemical components of that determine how it works.  I see this as being inspired by neurons, where the ions in solution are what moves, not just electrons in some solid state system.

So I hope it makes sense here that this connects a bunch of dots between the "let's build it all from trash" work and the kind of applied physics research we can publish in normal journals and get funded through normal sources.  It involves the aluminum oxide system that is the basis of all tunnel junctions used in all superconducting qubit work, SQUIDS etc, hence tunnel junctions, and things I know about.  But it's scanned probe with lots of places to do electrical spectroscopy studies that are Masa's specialty(I would so much love to see IETS done on trash!!!!) as well as random nanotech devices that are also in the Masa wheelhouse.  And opens up immediate collaboration with molecular electronics people, biological electronics fabrication, and other random applied science fields that do fab. The poking-clay-with-a-nail fab I have done on a large scale can also be done to fabricate little fluidics circuits, making hybrid fluidic/electronic circuits, which I think have HUGE potential for lab-on-chip biomedical applications.  That might be something as crude as spin on PDMS 50 microns thick and just stab it repeatedly with a 10-50 micron wide wire while it's still wet before you bake it, then press something flat over that, punch holes in that, etc.  Building a spinner from trash has to be part of it.  

The relationship between this and the other work is part of what can make it all work. Geometron makes it really easy to create the programs we need both for the write actions and the rastering for the read.  It also is an application in that we ultimately want to have information encoded in surfaces which are Geometron code which are used to replicate the information(self-replicating geometry!).  Ultimately we want to build up the electronics to the point that it can actually run the robot, taking in Geometron code written on surfaces which programs a writer on another surface, without ever using a Turing machine, just geometry in and geometry out(this is part of why I think the BUsh essay is so important, it's information technology that doesn't necessarily assume a Turing machine).  And Trash Magic Media is critical in that having a vast global network of free web servers with self-replicating documents on them is how we can scale this up globally without capital.  These are key!! Being able to scale is a huge problem with anything that is Not Silicon(TM).  If we are helping musicians to sell music by printing out physical songs and doing all this other stuff that gets people interested enough to replicate the system, that's what enables scaling without competing directly with a 10 billion dollar fab line in China(which is a fools errand I think).  We want not zero marginal cost but *negative* marginal cost, in that the fab makes people money when they build it, so that it replicates at a profit for the various random participants in public libraries around the world.  That's what makes this different from the typical toy systems people build in physics labs.  The ability to scale without capital or new global supply chains.  
